Resolved KeyError on custom actions (#4512)
nautobot/nautobot: nautobot/docs/development/apps/api/views/nautobotuiviewset.md

If you do not provide your own templates in the `yourapp/templates/yourapp` folder, `NautobotUIViewSet` will fall back to `generic/object_{self.action}.html`.

Since in many cases the `create` and `update` templates for a model will be identical, you are not required to create both. If you provide a `{app_label}/{model_opts.model_name}_create.html` file but not a `{app_label}/{model_opts.model_name}_update.html` file, then when you update an object, it will fall back to `{app_label}/{model_opts.model_name}_create.html` and vice versa.

### Adding Custom Views To NautobotUIViewSet & NautobotUIViewSetRouter

+++ 1.6.0
    Via [PR #4045](https://github.com/nautobot/nautobot/pull/4045), notes and changelog views provided by mixins have now been moved to this pattern.

> DjangoRestFramework provides the ability to decorate a method on a ViewSet with `@action(detail=True)` to add the method as a view to the ViewSetRouter. This method must return a fully rendered HTML view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Django REST Framework provides the ability to decorate a method on a ViewSet with `@action(detail=True)` to add the method as a view to the ViewSetRouter. This method must return a fully rendered HTML view.
```

> Below is an example of adding a custom view to the plugin ViewSet, a few considerations to keep in mind is the method name is the `action` and will be used for [template lookup](#template-naming-for-nautobotuiviewset) and URL naming. The expected template must be named `yourapp/yourappmodel_customview.html` and the reversible URL name will be `plugins:yourapp:yourappmodel_customview`. The new view will need an additional permission to be created, the permission action is the method name (e.g. in the below example the action will be `customview` and must be applied to a permission for `YourAppModel`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is an example of adding a custom action view to the plugin ViewSet. A few considerations to keep in mind:

- The method name is the `action` in Django REST Framework terms.
- The `action` will be used for [template lookup](#template-naming-for-nautobotuiviewset)
- The `action` will be used for URL naming and construction (`plugins:<app>:<model>_<action>`, `/plugins/<app>/<model>/<uuid>/<action>/`).
- The `action` will be used as a custom permission that users must have (`<app>.<action>_<model>`)

In the below example:

- The expected template must be named `yourapp/yourappmodel_customview.html`
- The reversible URL name will be `plugins:yourapp:yourappmodel_customview`
- The URL pattern will be `/plugins/yourapp/yourappmodel/<uuid>/customview/`
- Users will need `yourapp.customview_yourappmodel` permission to access this view.
```

Reviewer: Maybe should change `customview` to `customaction` for clarity?

from nautobot.apps.views import NautobotUIViewSet
from rest_framework.decorators import action
from rest_framework.response import Response

from yourapp import filters, forms, models, tables
from yourapp.api import serializers

class YourAppModelUIViewSet(NautobotUIViewSet):
    bulk_create_form_class = forms.YourAppModelCSVForm
    bulk_update_form_class = forms.YourAppModelBulkEditForm
    filterset_class = filters.YourAppModelFilterSet
    filterset_form_class = forms.YourAppModelFilterForm
    form_class = forms.YourAppModelForm
    queryset = models.YourAppModel.objects.all()
    serializer_class = serializers.YourAppModelSerializer
    table_class = tables.YourAppModelTable
    custom_action_permission_map = {"customview": "my_cutom_action"}
    # custom_action_permission_map = {"customview": "view"}  # Can also use built in actions

    @action(detail=True)
    def customview(self, request, *args, **kwargs):
        """Context passed to template for rendering.
        
        Expected URL pattern will be `/plugins/yourapp/yourappmodel/<uuid>/customview/`
        """
        context = {
            "some_key": "some value",
        }
        return Response(context)

> ```

Reviewer 2: Therefore all of this wouldn't be necessary, because all you'd have to do is define the custom action and it would "just work™".

If you do not provide your own templates in the `yourapp/templates/yourapp` folder, `NautobotUIViewSet` will fall back to `generic/object_{self.action}.html`.

Since in many cases the `create` and `update` templates for a model will be identical, you are not required to create both. If you provide a `{app_label}/{model_opts.model_name}_create.html` file but not a `{app_label}/{model_opts.model_name}_update.html` file, then when you update an object, it will fall back to `{app_label}/{model_opts.model_name}_create.html` and vice versa.

### Adding Custom Views To NautobotUIViewSet & NautobotUIViewSetRouter

> +++ 1.6.0

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+/- 1.6.0
```

    Via [PR #4045](https://github.com/nautobot/nautobot/pull/4045), notes and changelog views provided by mixins have now been moved to this pattern.

Django REST Framework provides the ability to decorate a method on a ViewSet with `@action(detail=True)` to add the method as a view to the ViewSetRouter. This method must return a fully rendered HTML view.

Below is an example of adding a custom action view to the plugin ViewSet. A few considerations to keep in mind:

* The method name is the `action` in Django REST Framework terms.
* The `action` will be used for [template lookup](#template-naming-for-nautobotuiviewset)
* The `action` will be used for URL naming and construction (`plugins:<app>:<model>_<action>`, `/plugins/<app>/<model>/<uuid>/<action>/`).
* The `action` will be used as a custom permission that users must have (`<app>.<action>_<model>`)

In the below example:

* The expected template must be named `yourapp/yourappmodel_customview.html`
* The reversible URL name will be `plugins:yourapp:yourappmodel_customview`
* The URL pattern will be `/plugins/yourapp/yourappmodel/<uuid>/customview/`

> * Users will need `yourapp.customview_yourappmodel` permission to access this view.

Reviewer 3: Instead of `yourappmodel_customview` would it be more clear to call this `yourappmodel_customaction`?

Reviewer 3: Maybe not, now that I've read this whole doc
